---
title:  "Happy New Year, &tau;"
published: true
permalink: commento-post.html
summary: "Happy New Year, &tau; !"
tags: [news]
---

2021 will be a great year for &tau;

Beside the regular maintenance (I am actually spending too much time on maintenance), I want to achieve
two major developments during 2021 :

- Implement Audio-Graphs (see below)
- React Native support (see below)

If at the of the year those two major points are achieved, then I will consider &tau; as a succes.

## `playFromMic()`


Several &tau; users need to play on the headset what is recorded by the microphone, in quasi-real-time.

I am convinced that implementing audio-graph will be the general solution and will be very elegant.
Today I introduce this new simple verb `startPlayerFromMic()` before the great global solution.

The App does not process the audio data. The App is in `pass-threw` mode. Later we will implement a `cut-mode`.

[This new example](flutter_sound_examples_play_from_mic.html) can be compared to [the old loop example](flutter_sound_examples_stream_loop.html).

### 1. iOS

`startPlayerFromMic()` directely links the microphone to the headset **inside the OS** itself, without any processing by &tau;

The improvement is really good. The delay between what is recorded and what is played is much better.

### 2. Android

The link between the microphone and the headset is done inside &tau;-core.
The messaging channels between Java and Dart are not involved. The audio data are just transfered from the recording-thread to the player thread.

This is a great disappointment : the latency is marginally improved.
This means that implementing data transfert from/to Dart with FFI will not benefit from using FFI.

I am currentely working to improve this latency problem. I think that it can be possible to do better on Android

## Happy New Year, &tau;
