---
title:  "Happy New Year, &tau;"
published: true
permalink: commento-post.html
summary: "Happy New Year, &tau; !"
tags: [news]
---

2021 will be a great year for &tau;

Beside the regular maintenance (I am actually spending too much time on maintenance), I want to achieve
two major developments during 2021 :

- Implement Audio-Graphs (see below)
- React Native support (see below)

If at the of the year those two major points are achieved, then I will consider &tau; as a succes.

## `playFromMic()`


Several &tau; users need to play on the headset what is recorded by the microphone, in quasi-real-time.

I am convinced that implementing audio-graph will be the general solution and will be very elegant.
Today I introduce this new simple verb `startPlayerFromMic()` before the great global solution.

The App does not process the audio data. The App is in `pass-threw` mode. Later we will implement a `cut-mode`.

[This new example](flutter_sound_examples_play_from_mic.html) can be compared to [the old loop example](flutter_sound_examples_stream_loop.html).

### 1. iOS

`startPlayerFromMic()` directely links the microphone to the headset **inside the OS** itself, without any processing by &tau;

The improvement is really good. The delay between what is recorded and what is played is much better.

### 2. Android

The link between the microphone and the headset is done inside &tau;-core.
The messaging channels between Java and Dart are not involved. The audio data are just transfered from the recording-thread to the player thread.

This is a great disappointment : the latency is marginally improved.
This means that implementing data transfert from/to Dart with FFI will not benefit from using FFI.

I am currentely working to improve this latency problem. I think that it can be possible to do better on Android


## Comments

&tau; docummentation has a Commento area at the bottom of every pages.

Doing a comment is very simple.
You can login using :
- Your google account (momentarily not available during a few days)
- Your Github account
- Your gitlab account
- Your Twitter account
- By providing your email address
- And now, you can even post anonymously (in this case, your post will be moderated).

&tau; documentation is not so good that it cannot be improved.
Doing a comment with Commento is so simple that I do not understand that nobody want to improve this doc.

{% include note.html content="I am not sure to receive correctely emails when a user makes a comment.
Maybe there are many comments but I have not got them." %}

## Audio-graphs

Audio-graph will be several audio-nodes linked together.
For example, you will be able to connect the Microphone node to the Equalizer node, and the Equalizer node to the Headset node.

I really want to do that. This project is really interesting to be developed, and I am fed up to work on uninteresting things.

My dream is also to create a graphic-editor to be be able to draw the audio-graph with the mouse.
The graphic editor will generate both a Dart (or Javascript) module and a visual SVG image that the &tau; user will be able to insert in its own documentation.

It will also generate a graph representation in an external format (JSON?), that you will be able to load during run-time inside your App.

{% include tip.html content="I guess that some App, will not want to **hard code** their audio-graph during development time,
but will want to allow their own end-user to define their audio-graph to be run.
Those App will provide their own graph editor, or perhaps will provide the &tau; graph editor to the end user.
The end user will _draw_ their own graph on their personal computer." %}

{% include note.html content="If we want that a normal end-user can use this editor, this editor must not be too technical.
Something powerful but usable by someone who has no computer notion." %}

### Examples

{% include image.html file="graph_examples.svg"  caption="Some Audio-Graph examples" %}



## React Native support

You are a Flutter developer. So you do not care very much about supporting other frameworks.

But I am a complete libertarian. I really believe in freedom.
I hate jails. And Dart is a kind of jail. Dart does not exist outside Flutter.
And Flutter is perhaps a good framework, but Flutter cannot be everything.

In Future it will we good if we can support
- Javascript (React-Native, Native-Script, Ionic). And more generally, all the platforms that support Cordova.
- LUA (Solar 2D). I love LUA :+1
- Pascal (Lazarus). I do love Pascal :+1
- Perhaps C# (Xamarin). Note sure : C# is another jail...

There is no limit of what could be done for &tau;. But I will probably die before.


## The license

When I begun to work on Flutter Sound (one year ago), this library was published under the MIT license.
I consider Free licenses that do not include `copyleft` clause as bad licenses.
I really did not want to spend much of my life on a Software badly protected

I am a liberterian (I believe in Freedom which is the real meaning of anarchy).

The boss of Dooboolab (my friend Hyo), is a very nice man, and accepted without hesitation to change the License to LGPL.
I am very glad of this change : recently Flutter Sound gave birth to a new fork. Being allowed to fork a Free Software is a very good thing
and it is the base of the Freedom.

But because Flutter Sound (now &tau;) is protected by LGPL, this fork will never be Close Source with a proprietary license.
This fork will probably die soon (if it is not already dead), but the risk having a fork becoming Close Source cannot be taken.

Then, I asked to Dooboolab to transform the LGPL license to GPL. I consider GPL as **THE** real Free license.
But Dooboolab did not accept that, and I understand his refusal.

I had then two choices :
- Accept to work part of my life on a software badly protected.
- Fork Flutter Sound, me too

I choosed the former. I thought that leaving Flutter Sound without any developer was a way to kill it.
And I do no want the death of Flutter Sound.

Everything that I develop which is linked to Flutter Sound will be covered byt the current LGPL license.

But new developments (&tau; for React Native, the Audio-Graph editor, ...) will be licensed under the GPL and not anymore LGPL.
This is a political choice, and the reason I develop Free Software is a political reason.


## Happy New Year, &tau;
